The last input i want to introduce you to, is the
keyboard input. This is very similar to the mouse
input i previously introduced you to. Similar to
the mouse input, we have a variable that tells
us if the keyboard or one key on our keyboard
is currently pressed. This variable is called
keyIsPressed. Similar to our mouseIsPressed,
this is also a boolean value. So we can make a
simple condition and check if it's true and
then we, for example, can change the radius,
make it smaller. Then of course we need to
make sure that this is not a constant anymore.
And if you use the keyboard, make sure that you
click on your browser window, so that the browser
window is active. Otherwise it cannot receive
the events from the keyboard. Now every time, i
press a key on the keyboard, we can see that this
is now executed. Similar to the mouse, we also
have several event functions that are triggered,
for example, if a key on the keyboard is pressed.
For this event, there is keyPressed.
This is similar to the mousePressed
function that we had before. Let's move the
radius in the "global scope" and now change the
radius when the key is pressed. But of course when
you're receiving events from the keyboard, you're
actually interested which key is pressed. So that
you can apply different outputs to different keys.
Therefore, there is a global variable called
keyCode. keyCode holds the current number
of the key that is currently pressed. Each key
has a certain number. To figure out which key
has which number, we can simply use our console
function. So "console.log(keycode)" will show
us the current keyCode in the console window.
Again simply click on your browser window. Click
on "inspect" and move to the console. And now if
i click, click a key. This is now the space bar,
or this is the left arrow, this is the right
arrow. We can see that each key is represented by
a number. Now we simply need to write conditions
to match those numbers and then we can create a
function that changes our radius. For example,
let's use the left and the right arrows, to
increase or decrease our radius. We write a simple
condition and say okay, if keyCode equals 37,
this is the left arrow then radius should be
increased by 10 and else if keyCode equals 39 then
radius should be decreased by 10. Save this
and now we can make our circle shrink and grow.
So it's quite tricky to remember all these
different numbers. So most of the time you need to
use the console functions to just output them and
get them. But p5.js has a couple of shortcuts for
some of the keys that you will often use, like the
arrow keys. For example for left arrow there is
a simple variable called LEFT_ARROW or RIGHT_ARROW
which will allow us to write a word instead of
a number. But this variable called LEFT_ARROW
is basically the value 37 as right arrow is
39. It only makes it easier for you to remember
what to write in these kind of conditions, but
it's really just a number, just easier to access.